	John the Ripper usage examples.

These examples are to give you some tips on what John's features can be
used for.


	Command line.

1. First, you need to get a copy of your password file.  If your system
uses shadow passwords, you may use John's "unshadow" utility to obtain
the traditional Unix password file, as root:

	umask 077
	unshadow /etc/passwd /etc/shadow > mypasswd

(You may need to replace the filenames as needed.)

Then make "mypasswd" available to your non-root user account that you
will run John under.  No further commands will need to be run as root.

If your system is ancient enough that it keeps passwords right in the
world-readable /etc/passwd, simply make a copy of that file.

If you're going to be cracking Kerberos AFS passwords, use John's
"unafs" utility to obtain a passwd-like file.

Similarly, if you're going to be cracking Windows passwords, use any of
the many utilities that dump Windows password hashes (LM and/or NTLM) in
Jeremy Allison's PWDUMP output format.  Some of these utilities may be
obtained here:

	http://www.openwall.com/passwords/pwdump

2. Now, let's assume you've got a password file, "mypasswd", and want to
crack it.  The simplest way is to let John use its default order of
cracking modes:

	john mypasswd

This will try "single crack" mode first, then use a wordlist with rules,
and finally go for "incremental" mode.  Please refer to MODES for more
information on these modes.

It is highly recommended that you obtain a larger wordlist than John's
default password.lst and edit the "Wordlist = ..." line in the
configuration file (see CONFIG) before running John.  Some wordlists may
be obtained here:

	http://www.openwall.com/wordlists/

Of those available in the collection at the URL above, all.lst
(downloadable as all.gz) and huge.lst (only available on the CD) are
good candidates for the "Wordlist = ..." setting.

3. If you've got some passwords cracked, they are stored in
$JOHN/john.pot.  The john.pot file is not meant to be human-friendly.
You should be using John itself to display the contents of its "pot
file" in a convenient format:

	john --show mypasswd

If the account list gets large and doesn't fit on the screen, you
should, of course, use your shell's output redirection.

You might notice that many accounts have a disabled shell.  You can make
John skip those in the report.  Assuming that the disabled shell is
called "/etc/expired", the command would be:

	john --show --shells=-/etc/expired mypasswd

or shorter, but will also match "/any/path/expired":

	john --show --shells=-expired mypasswd

or if you also want to ignore some other shell, say "/etc/newuser":

	john --show --shells=-expired,newuser mypasswd

To check if any root (UID 0) accounts got cracked:

	john --show --users=0 mypasswd

or to check for cracked root (UID 0) accounts in multiple files:

	john --show --users=0 *passwd* *.pwd

To display the root (username "root") account only:

	john --show --users=root mypasswd

And finally, to check for privileged groups:

	john --show --groups=0,1 mypasswd

4. You might prefer to manage the cracking modes manually.  It is wise
to start with "single crack" mode:

	john --single mypasswd

or since the GNU-style double dashes are optional and since option
names can be abbreviated for as long as they remain unambiguous:

	john -si mypasswd

You should not abbreviate options in scripts which you would want to
work with future versions of John since what is unambiguous now might
become ambiguous with the addition of more options.

If you have more files to crack, it is preferable to load them at the
same time:

	john --single passwd1 passwd2

or even:

	john --single *passwd* *.pwd

This way, John will run faster and might even crack more passwords than
it would if you ran it on each password file separately.

5. To catch weak passwords not derived from readily available users'
personal information, you should proceed with cracking modes demanding
more processor time.  First, let's try a tiny wordlist with word
mangling rules enabled:

	john --wordlist=password.lst --rules mypasswd

or abbreviating the options:

	john -w=password.lst -ru mypasswd

Then proceed with a larger wordlist, also applying the mangling rules:

	john --wordlist=all.lst --rules mypasswd

If you've got a lot of spare disk space to trade for performance and the
hash type of your password files is relatively slow, you may use John's
"unique" utility to eliminate any duplicate candidate passwords:

	john --wordlist=all.lst --rules --stdout | unique mangled.lst
	john --wordlist=mangled.lst mypasswd

If you know that your target hash type truncates passwords at a given
length, you may optimize this even further:

	john --wordlist=all.lst --rules --stdout=8 | unique mangled8.lst
	john --wordlist=mangled8.lst mypasswd

Alternatively, you may simply use huge.lst available on Openwall
wordlist collection CDs.  It has word mangling rules pre-applied for the
most common languages and it has any duplicates purged.

Depending on target hash type, the number of different salts (if
applicable), the size of your wordlist, rules, and processor
performance, wordlist-based cracking may take anywhere from under a
second to many days.

You do not have to leave John running on a (pseudo-)terminal.  If
running John on a Unix-like system, you can simply disconnect from the
server, close your xterm, etc.  John will catch the SIGHUP ("hangup"
signal) and continue running.  Alternatively, you may prefer to start it
in the background right away:

	john --wordlist=all.lst --rules mypasswd &

Obviously, the "&" is specific to Unix shells and will not work on most
other platforms.

You may further enhance this by specifying a session name:

	john --session=allrules --wordlist=all.lst --rules mypasswd &

This ensures that you won't accidentally interfere with the instance of
John running in the background if you proceed to start other sessions.

To view the status of a running session, use:

	john --status

for the default session or:

	john --status=allrules

for any other session.  This works for both interrupted and running
sessions.  To obtain the most up-to-date information from a running
session on a Unix-like system, send a SIGHUP to the appropriate "john"
process.

Any interrupted sessions may be continued with:

	john --restore

or:

	john --restore=allrules

Finally, to make John have less impact on other processes, you should
set the option "Idle = Y" in the configuration file (see CONFIG).  The
default may vary depending on the version and build of JtR.

To only crack accounts with a "good" shell (in general, the shell, user,
and group filters described above work for all cracking modes as well):

	john --wordlist=all.lst --rules --shells=sh,csh,tcsh,bash mypasswd

Like with all other cracking modes, it is faster to crack all the files
you need cracked simultaneously:

	john --wordlist=all.lst --rules passwd1 passwd2

You can crack some passwords only.  This will try cracking all root
(UID 0) accounts in all the password files:

	john --wordlist=all.lst --rules --users=0 *passwd*

Alternatively, you may wish to not waste time cracking your very own
passwords, if you're sure they're uncrackable:

	john --wordlist=all.lst --rules --users=-root,solar *passwd*

Sometimes it is useful to split your password hashes into two sets which
you crack separately, like:

	john --wordlist=all.lst --rules --salts=2 *passwd*
	john --wordlist=all.lst --rules --salts=-2 *passwd*

This will make John try salts used on two or more password hashes first
and then try the rest.  Total cracking time will be almost the same, but
you will get some passwords cracked earlier, which is useful, for
example, for penetration testing and demonstrations to management.
Similarly, you may check all password hashes with a small wordlist, but
only those that you can check faster (with "--salts=2") with a larger
one.  With large numbers of password hashes and/or with a highly
non-uniform distribution of salts, it may be appropriate to use a
threshold larger than 2 with "--salts" (sometimes even values as high as
1000 will do).

Note that the default wordlist rules include ":" (a no-op - try words as
they are in the list) on the first line.  If you already ran through a
wordlist without using rules, and then decided to also try the same
wordlist with rules, you'd better comment this line out.

6. The most powerful cracking mode in John is called "incremental" (not a
proper name, but kept for historical reasons).  You can simply run:

	john --incremental mypasswd

or:

	john -i mypasswd

This will use the default "incremental" mode parameters, which are
defined in the configuration file's section named either
[Incremental:All] (for most hash types) or [Incremental:LanMan] (for
Windows LM hashes).  By default, the [Incremental:All] parameters are
set to use the full printable US-ASCII character set (95 characters) and
to try all possible password lengths from 0 to 8.  [Incremental:LanMan]
is similar, except that it takes advantage of LM hashes being
case-insensitive and of their halves limited to 7 characters each.

Don't expect "incremental" mode sessions to terminate in a reasonable
time (unless all the passwords are weak and get cracked), read MODES for
an explanation of this.

In some cases it is faster to use some other pre-defined incremental mode
parameters and only crack simpler passwords, from a limited character
set.  The following command will try 26 different characters only,
passwords from "a" to "zzzzzzzz" (in an optimal order):

	john -i=alpha mypasswd

Of course, you can use most of the additional features demonstrated
above for wordlist mode with "incremental" mode as well.  For example,
on a large-scale penetration test, you may have John crack only root
(UID 0) accounts in a set of password files:

	john -i -u=0 *.pwd

7. If you've got a password file for which you already have a lot of
passwords cracked or obtained by other means, and the passwords are
unusual, then you may want to generate a new charset file, based on
character frequencies from that password file only:

	john --make-charset=custom.chr mypasswd

Then use that new file with "incremental" mode.

If you've got many password files from a particular country,
organization, etc., it might be useful to use all of them for the
charset file that you then use to crack even more passwords from these
files or from some other password files from the same place:

	john --make-charset=custom.chr passwd1 passwd2
	[ Configure your custom "incremental" mode now.  See below. ]
	john -i=custom passwd3

You can use some pre-defined or custom word filters when generating the
charset file to have John consider some simpler passwords only:

	john --make-charset=my_alpha.chr --external=filter_alpha mypasswd

If your "pot file" got large enough (or if you don't have any charset
files at all), you might want to use it to generate a new set of main
charset files:

	john --make-charset=all.chr
	john --make-charset=alnum.chr --external=filter_alnum
	john --make-charset=alpha.chr --external=filter_alpha
	john --make-charset=digits.chr --external=filter_digits
	john --make-charset=lanman.chr --external=filter_lanman

In the example above, John will overwrite the charset files with new
ones that are based on your entire $JOHN/john.pot (John uses the entire
"pot file" if you don't specify any password files).  Note that the word
filters used here are pre-defined in the configuration file supplied
with John, for your convenience.

8. Finally, you might want to e-mail all users with weak passwords to
tell them to change their passwords.  (This is not always a good idea,
though, since lots of people do not check their e-mail or ignore such
messages, and the messages can be a hint for crackers.)  Edit the
"mailer" script supplied with John: the message it sends and possibly
the mail command (especially if the password file is from a different
machine).  Then run:

	mailer mypasswd


	Configuration file.

Please refer to CONFIG for general information on the configuration file
and its possible locations.

1. Let's assume that you notice that in some password file a lot of
users have their passwords set to login names with "?!" appended.  Then
you just make a new "single crack" mode rule (see RULES for information
on the syntax) and place it somewhere near the beginning:

	[List.Rules:Single]
	$?$!

Hint: if you want to temporarily disable all of the default rules, you
can simply rename the section to something John doesn't use and define
a new one with the section's old name, but be sure to leave the "List."
prefix of the name intact to maintain correct configuration file syntax.

All the same applies to wordlist mode rules as well.

2. If you generate a custom charset file (described above) you will also
need to define a configuration file section with the "incremental" mode
parameters.  In the simplest case it will be like this (where "Custom"
can be replaced with any name you like):

	[Incremental:Custom]
	File = custom.chr

This way, John will only use characters from passwords used to generate
the charset file only.  To make John try some more characters, add:

	Extra = !@#$%

These extra characters will then be added, but still considered the
least probable.  If you want to make sure that, with your extra
characters, John will try all the 95 printable US-ASCII characters, you
can add:

	CharCount = 95

This will make John print a warning if it only has fewer than 95
characters in its charset.

You can also use CharCount to limit the number of different characters
that John tries, even if the charset file has more:

	CharCount = 20

If you didn't use any filters when generating the charset file, setting
CharCount this low will make John never attempt rare characters and
character combinations, not even for really short passwords, spending
the time on simple longer candidate passwords instead.  However, the
default length switching is usually smart enough so that you shouldn't
need this trick.

To make John try passwords of certain lengths only, use the following
lines:

	MinLen = 6
	MaxLen = 8

Setting "MinLen" high, as in the example above, is reasonable if shorter
passwords weren't allowed to set on the machine you got the password file
from (however, note that root can usually set any password for any user
and there are often loopholes in operating systems' password policy
enforcement capabilities).

On the contrary, you may want to set "MaxLen" low if you think there are
a lot of short passwords.

3. Another example: a lot of users at some site use short duplicated
words as their passwords, such as "fredfred".  As the number of such
potential passwords is fairly low, it makes sense to code a new external
cracking mode that tries them all, up to some length.

You can find the actual implementation of such a cracking mode with lots
of comments in the default configuration file supplied with John.
Please refer to EXTERNAL for information on the programming language
used.

$Owl: Owl/packages/john/john/doc/EXAMPLES,v 1.8 2009/12/25 16:59:31 solar Exp $
